In this video we're going to go ahead
and download and install IntelliJ IDEA,
which is the editor or the IDE that
we're going to be using in this course
for our programs. Now this particular
video is for Windows platform. Now if
you're running a Mac or you're running
on Linux, there are separate videos for
both those operating systems in this
section of the course, so I refer to
those videos as appropriate or if you're
on Windows you're in the right place.
So the first thing to do is to go to the
website jetbrains.com, that's the site
all the creators of this IntelliJ IDEA
product that we going to be using,
one you get there and come down here and
click on IntelliJ, if it's showing if by
chance it's not showing for some reason,
go to IDE or IDEs and click on IntelliJ
IDEA, either way click on that link to go
to that page, next option is to click on
download, you're then presented with two
options to download either the Ultimate
Edition or the Community Edition. Now I'm
going to go ahead and download the
Community Edition, then we're going to
talk a little bit about it once it's
downloading just to save a bit of time,
so I clicked on download as you saw
it should pop up you can see down the
bottom, I'm going to click on save to
save that, I'm just going to go back just
to show you the page with the Ultimate
Edition and the Community Edition and
just talk about they're both there on
both versions there. Now the Ultimate
Edition is the commercial product, so if
you want to use that past a trial period
you will need to pay money for it and
you'll need to pay JetBrains for that.
The Community Edition on the other hand
is completely free and you'll never have
to pay anything for it, so it can be a
good choice in many cases to take the
free and open-source version, but if you
do want to have access to other
commercial features for example Java
Enterprise Edition and using other
frameworks that aren't compatible or
aren't available in the free version,
the Community Edition you can take this
option here and with the Ultimate
Edition there's a 30-day trial option so
you can try it out for free for 30 days
and then after that ordinarily you
would have to pay for it, so refer to
that if you decide to download the
Ultimate Edition, otherwise as you saw me
doing this video I've downloaded to the community edition
and that will certainly work okay in
this course. Alright so now that that's
downloaded, I'm gonna click on run so
depending on your browser, you may need
to navigate to the folder where you've
downloaded it in any event to start up
the installer, in this case I've clicked
run and it's going to give us the option
to start installing, you're going to
close the browser down now and they're
gonna go through and follow the setup
process I'm gonna click on next I'm
going to just assume or select or use
the default location, the destination
folder, don't need to change that.
Now the other option you'll need to know is
whether you're running a 32-bit or a
64-bit version of Windows. Now in the
previous video, I've shown you how to do
that in the JDK the Java development kit
video I showed you how to determine
whether you're running a 32-bit or
64-bit so depending on what you found
when you're downloading that video,
select the relevant option in my case
I was running a 64-bit edition so I'm
going to select that obviously you'd
select a 32-bit if that's what you're
running on your windows is
running under 32-bit version and I
suggest you click these three
associations, there's check boxes and
that just enables those particular
languages, those files they've got that
file extension to be opened up in
IntelliJ and that's usually what you
want to do and click on next, click on
install and that's now going ahead and
installing IntelliJ IDEA, so I'm just
going to fast forward this video now to
save a bit of time and we come back
after it's finished installing.
Alright, so you can say it's just about
finished now we'll just let that finish off.
Alright so it's now actually finished
the next option is just to click on the
check box, so we can run IntelliJ and
that's an irrespective of whether you've
downloaded the ultimate or in this case
the Community Edition, so click on that
and click on finish and it's going to
start up IntelliJ for us. Now usually
you'll see this option and it's coming
up telling us that we've got an option
to try and import some settings. Now this
would be useful if you're running
IntelliJ or you have installed a
previous version and you want to retain
the settings that you've configured in
this case I haven't actually installed
IntelliJ on this computer and this is
most likely the option you'll see, so you
can click on do not import settings
otherwise there's a location usually
selected or found by IntelliJ and you
could select that and get IntelliJ to
import those settings and use them in
your installation of IntelliJ, but in my
case I'm going to leave the default do
not import settings and click ok.
Alright next we need to go through a
configuration section to just set up
some settings and to tell IntelliJ what
options we want, now this is the theme
and you can see the one on the left has
got a white background the one on the
right has got a darker background, we can
choose either so select which one you
would like prefer to work with knowing
that you can always change it later I'm
going to select the one with the white
background and click on next. Now there's
a series of plugins on this screen and
you can choose all sorts of things and
what I suggest you do generally is leave
this as it is now and come back later if
you decide you want to install plug-ins
and just the other thing to note is if
you're running the ultimate version of
IntelliJ you'll actually have more
options to install plug-ins about I'm
just going to click on next,
same deal here if we want to change or
install these two things which we aren't
going to use in this particular course,
you can do that now
but I'm going to skip both of those and
click on start using IntelliJ IDEA and
you can see that that's now loaded up
IntelliJ. Now the next step we need to do
is actually configure the Java
development kit and we need to do that
so that we can actually program in this
course, so the way to do that is to click
on configure and click on project
defaults and then select project structure
and that'll bring us to the screen and
if you're not seeing project SDK,
showing there, you might have been
clicked in another area so just make
sure you clicked a project and that will
show that and you click on the drop down
just to see whether there's been one
configured but in my case you can see it
says no SDK, SDK meaning software
development kit, so what we need to do is
create one so that so we can actually
program within IntelliJ, so what
we need to do is basically associate the
Java development kit that we've
installed previously with IntelliJ, so to
do that I'm going to click on new and
I'm going to select JDK. Now what we need
to do is navigate to the folder where we
installed the Java development kit and I
did talk about that in the Java
development kit installation video,
the need to know where that was installed
and if you recall that on my machine in
that video it was installed in the
Program Files folder, so navigate to that
folder and go into the Java subfolder
and you'll see that there's these two
folder locations - JDK and the JRE and
this number may change depending on when
you're watching this video but the one
you want to select is the JDK then go
ahead and click on JDK and click on ok
and just before I click on ok,
it is important to have a look and make
sure that you've selected program files
and not program files x86 because
there's two directories in there that
are very similar and you can see there's
this program files x86,
if I open that up and have a look you'll
see that there's no Java folder there,
so a common question will come up far
from students not being able to follow
the Java folder and that's because
they're looking in the Program Files x86
but in my case close it back up again
we're in the right place here we're in
the Program Files Java and I've clicked
on the JDK and make sure you don't click
on the JRE because we need the JDK
because that's the development kit which
includes the extra tools that we need to
be able to program ,so I'm going to click
on ok with that selected and you can see
any other project SDK has been changed
here in the past that was known as SDK
right now I've got an option there so
that's not selected automatically make
sure that is selected and the next thing
you want to do here is make sure that
project language level we can actually
see that it says SDK default eight
so it is possible to choose other
versions, but you won't need to do that
at this time so I'll leave that
particular version selected, so we don't
need to change anything else on this
page, I'm going to click on ok we've got
a few other settings that we need to
configure and then we can actually move
on to start our working with program
code, so we come back here and click on
configure I'm going to click on settings.
Once we've done that what do I actually
come over here down into editor, we'll
expand that out and I click on an expand
general and want to do two things
firstly, I want to click on auto import
you want to make sure that to both add
an ambiguous inputs on the fly is
clicked and optimized imports on the fly
and then I'll just make your coding a
little bit easier as we go through the
course, so I'm going to apply that change
then next to click on is appearance and
make sure that show line numbers is
selected, now it is actually showing
us a default for me but it's for
summaries and it wasn't checked make
sure you do check that shown line
numbers and once you've done that,
you can click on ok and we're actually done
at this point, so I'm going to end the
video here now and we can move on to the
next video and start making use of IntelliJ IDEA.